The Metasploit Project is a computer security project that provides information about security vulnerabilities and aids in penetration testing and IDS signature development. Boston, Massachusetts-based security company Rapid7 owns it. Its best-known sub-project is the open-source Metasploit Framework, a tool for developing and executing exploit code against a remote target machine.   The Metasploit Project includes anti-forensic and evasion tools, some of which are built into the Metasploit Framework. Metasploit is pre-installed in the Kali Linux operating system. In this lab, we use the command-line only version, msfconsole, which runs on Ubuntu Linux.   The Metasploit framework consists of the core and base, many exploits, payloads, modules (Ruby classes), plugin’s, scripts, and multiple user interfaces. The Metasploit framework also contains some great information- gathering tools called auxiliary modules. Auxiliary modules can be used for port scanning, service identification, password sniffing, and Windows patch enumeration. Metasploit is highly customizable for advanced users and can be customized the meet your custom needs by writing your own exploits, modules, plugins, and scripts. If Metasploit does not provide the information gathering module you need by default, you can simply write it yourself.   The msfconsole is the user interface known to be the most stable interface, and you can use it to execute external commands like the ping command and the tab auto-completion. A graphical user interface is available for Metasploit called Armitage, which is not covered in this lab.The show targets command will return a list of operating systems which are vulnerable to the selected ex- ploit. When you run the command, you get the following output, shown in Figure CS-CNS-20010.8, for the adobe_flash_shader_drawing_fill exploit:   This exploit targets both Windows and Linux operating systems. Note that you can use the info command to get additional info about this exploit and targets. To set a target, you can use the command set followed by the target ID:set target 1	By setting the target, the list of payloads will be reduced a lot because only payloads will be shown which are compatible with the target (Linux), which is shown in Figure CS-CNS-20010.9.1.2.4 Show advancedBy using the show advanced command, we can look at the advanced options for the exploit. The show nops command will return a list of NOP generators. A NOP is short for No Operation and is used to change the pattern of a NOP sled in order to bypass simple IDS/IPS signatures of common NOP sleds. The NOP generators start with the CPU architecture in the name. An example is shown in Figure CS-CNS-20010.11.   To use a NOP generator, use the set command, followed by the name of the NOP generator. When the exploit is launched, the NOP sleds will be taken from the NOP generator.The show evasion command returns a list of available evasion techniques. An example is shown in Figure CS-CNS-20010.12.To change evasions settings, use the set command, followed by the evasion parameter and the new value.1.3 Metasploit Commands for Exploit ExecutionWhen all the required options have been set for the exploit, including a payload and advanced settings like a NOP generator, evasion options, and encoding, the exploit is ready to be executed. The exploit can be executed using two commands: run and exploit. Just type run or exploit in the msfconsole and the exploit will run.Metasploitable2 is an intentionally vulnerable Linux machine downloaded and set up as a virtual machine in any hypervisor such as KVM, VMware Player, and Virtual box.   An important part of the Metasploitable 2 enumeration process is the port scanning and fingerprinting process. Port scanning is used to probe a server or host for open TPC and UDP ports. Fingerprinting is the process of identifying the services connected to those ports.   The Nmap port and service scans return a lot of open ports, listening services, and the version of the operating system. The Metasploitable-2 host is running Linux 2.6.9 - 2.6.33 as the operating system. We can see that the host is running an SSH service using OpenSSH, a telnet service, an Apache 2.2.8 webserver, 2 SQL servers, and some more services. A list of running services and their running ports are given as follows:Metasploitable 2 is intentionally vulnerable. Therefore, one can only suspect that most, if not all, of the services, contain vulnerabilities, backdoors, etc.2.2 Metasploitable 2 user enumerationWith user enumeration, the penetrations tester sees what users have access to the server and which users exist on the network. Another purpose for user enumeration is to gain access to the machine by using brute force techniques. Since the username is already known to the penetration tester, the only thing left to brute force is the password. There are multiple ways of enumerating users on a Linux system, such as:1. Enumerating users using a Nmap script named smb-enum-users.2. Enumerating users through a null session using rpclient.To enumerate the user accounts available on the target machine, you will be using the following Nmap script:smb-enum-users. You can run the NMap script by using the following command: Enumerating user accounts through null sessions with rpcclientRpcclient is a Linux tool used for executing client-side MS-RPC functions. A null session is a connection with a samba or SMB server that does not require authentication with a password. No username or password is needed to set-up the connection, and therefore it is called a null session. The allowance of null sessions was enabled by default on legacy systems but has been disabled from Windows XP SP2 and Windows Server 2003. The connection uses port 445, an open port on the out target host, as we’ve seen in the port scan results.Enum4linux can be found on Kali Linux. It is used to enumerate Windows and Samba hosts and is written in Perl. The tool is basically a wrapper for smbclient, rpcclient, net, and nmblookup. Let’s have a look at how to use enum4linux and run it on Metasploitable 2. Below are the most common options used in enum4linux. To get an overview of different options, use the -help flag.