Syslog is one of the most important standards used in Linux as it is the key file which helps you determine the different level of logs which are getting generated and stored every second while you are working on your Linux box. Syslog can be taken as System Log. 
Benefits of using syslog.Helps analyze the root cause for any trouble or problem caused.Reduce overall downtime helping to troubleshoot issues faster with all the logs.Improves incident management by active detection of issues.Self-determination of incidents along with auto resolution.Simplified architecture with different level of severity like error,info,warning, etc.The syslog.conf file is the main configuration file for the syslogd which logs system messages on Unix/Linux Systems. This file specifies rules for logging. However, in this lab, we use syslog terms to illustrate the basic concepts and use rsyslog as the working logging system, which is the default system log on Ubuntu Linux distribution.When configure syslog (syslog.conf is the one for syslogd and rsyslog configures are set up in the /etc/rsyslog.d/ folder), every rule consists of two fields, a selector field and an action field. These two fields are separated by one or more spaces or tabs. The selector field specifies a pattern of facilities and priorities belonging to the specified action.The selector field itself again consists of two parts, a facility and a priority, separated by a period.Both parts are case insensitive. For example, Kern.none, mail.info, etc.	The facility is one of the following keywords: auth, authpriv, cron, daemon, kern, lpr, mail, mark, news, security (same as auth), syslog, user, uucp and local0 through local7. The keyword security should not be used anymore and mark is only for internal use and therefore should not be used in applications.You may want to specify and redirect these messages here. The facility specifies the subsystem that produced the message, i.e., all mail programs log with the mail facility (LOG MAIL) if they log using syslog. The priority is one of the following keywords, in ascending order: debug, info, notice, warning, warn (same as warning), err, error (same as err), crit, alert, emerg, panic (same as emerg). The keywords error, warn and panic are deprecated and should not be used anymore. Network support means that messages can be forwarded from one node running syslogd to another node running syslogd where they will be actually logged to a disk file.The strategy is to have syslogd listen on a Unix/Linux domain socket for locally generated log messages. This behavior will allow syslogd to inter-operate with the syslog found in the standard C library. At the same time syslogd listens on the standard syslog port for messages forwarded from other hosts. To have this work correctly the /etc/services file must have the following entry:If this entry is missing syslogd neither can receive remote messages nor send them, because the UDP port cannot be opened. Instead, syslogd will die immediately, blowing out an error message. For example, to forward ALL messages to a remote host uses the following syslog.conf entry: